well it's time to stretch your legs and
take a walk in the park
the sun is shining and you enjoy the
weather and life on the whole
that's when you spot a rapidly growing
vertical cloud
bright white at first it's approaching
alarmingly fast
becoming dense and inky the sky is
darkening
and a gust of wind blows the hat off
your head
and then your hair starts to stand on in
that's your cue to run for your life
you're about to be hit by
lightning at this very moment positive
charges are rising through your body
they're reaching toward the negatively
charged part of the storm
if you don't react fast these charges
will meet and
it'll end badly for you if there's
nowhere you can hide
crouch down and try to make yourself
smaller than the objects around you
don't lie flat on the ground it may be
wet and thus
a great conductor of electricity there
are also
other signs that scream danger during a
lightning storm your palms may begin to
sweat
you might hear bizarre crackling buzzing
or vibrating sounds
coming from mental objects nearby your
skin can start to tingle
there might be a strange metallic taste
in your mouth if you're sure you're not
chewing on tin foil
then look out plus you're likely to
smell chlorine
that's ozone electrical charges split
the molecules of nitrogen and oxygen
which are the main gases forming the
atmosphere into
separate atoms when these atoms come
together again
some of them produce molecules made up
of three oxygen atoms
that's ozone you can smell it during a
thunderstorm
because downdrafts bring it from high
altitudes to your nose level
you can figure out how close a
thunderstorm is by measuring the time
between
spotting the lightning and hearing the
thunder every five seconds is one mile
the sky over your head is darkening and
turning ominously green
something hits you on the cheek ouch it
hurts
you pick up the offending object it's a
massive hail stone
but it's not that cold outside and it's
not raining
you notice how still everything is how
quiet
there's no wind whatsoever it makes you
think about the calm before the storm
and indeed soon you hear some noise it's
approaching rapidly
and turns into a loud roar as if a
freight train is moving towards you
only it's not a train it's a tornado
and you have almost no time to escape
the funnel isn't visible behind a cloud
of debris
but you can't mistake this rotating
column of air for anything
else if the tornado catches you on the
road
get as far from your car as you can this
will prevent the vehicle from being
hurdled toward you
find a ditch lie down in it and cover
your head
if you're inside get away from windows
and hide underground if possible
now you're at the seaside walking along
the shore and enjoying a light breeze
suddenly the ground starts shaking under
your feet must be an earthquake
the next weirdness you notice is the
water retreating from the beach at
breakneck speed
it leaves behind the exposed ocean floor
reefs and even
fish that's when you hear a distant
roaring sound
it's a tsunami and you only have a few
minutes to save your life
get to high ground immediately a giant
wave is already speeding toward the
shore
it's not the only way a tsunami can
creep up on you it doesn't necessarily
come crashing against the shore
as a series of huge waves a tsunami can
look like a rapidly rising tide
it usually goes hand in hand with severe
underwater turbulence
it pulls people under the surface and
tosses heavy objects around
you can also notice sea water bubbling
swirling
and creating bizarre patterns it's
another sure sign
a tsunami's coming your dog's restless
it's scratching the entrance door
roaming around the apartment
and trying to hide in the corner usually
calm and docile
the pooch is now howling and barking the
weather's also been crazy for the past
several days
it's hot one day and chilly 24 hours
later
plus you've noticed that the stream near
your house has livened up
bubbling as it's rushing past only when
glasses
start to clink in your cupboard do you
realize what it means
the clatter is produced by four shocks
tiny earthquakes
leading up to the main event earthquakes
often occur in clusters
if there are several weak quakes a much
bigger one might be on the way
sometime before the disaster strikes you
might notice bizarre blue lights
some of them seem to be coming from the
ground others are hovering in the air
these are so-called earthquake lines
emitted from rocks under great stress
they can be seen days
or mere seconds before the ground starts
shaking at the same time
some experts doubt earthquake lights
exist
if you think an earthquake is about to
happen and there's a catfish in your
aquarium
pay attention to its behavior scientists
have proved this species can react to
earth tremors
the fish become restless when seismic
activity is high
some bugs can feel a storm coming they
get ready for the natural disaster by
stopping any movement
that's why if you notice that lots of
insects around you look drowsy
search for shelter as for bees they can
predict heavy rain storms
they begin to work much harder the day
before it starts raining
square waves occur when two wave
patterns crash into each other
this phenomenon looks awesome but only
if you're watching it from the shore
don't even think of getting in the water
to play in such waves
in that place there are cross currents
that can easily pull
even a skilled swimmer under the surface
and if you see wild choppy waves
carrying ocean debris and seaweed
stay out of the water too it can be a
sign of a strong rip current
it can carry you far away from the ocean
if you see smelly green stuff on the
surface of a lake or sea
stay away from the water it can be a
hazardous
algal bloom you won't be able to tell
whether it's toxic or not at first sight
that's why it's better to steer clear of
it altogether
three or four days before a hurricane
arrives the sea
or ocean surface can swell up to six
feet
waves hit the shore every nine seconds
the closer the hurricane
the more rapidly the waves crash against
the shore
they also get higher sometimes up to 16
feet the sky is littered with light
fluffy clouds
roughly 36 hours before the hurricane
reaches the shore
the atmospheric pressure begins to drop
after that the wind speeds up wispy
hair-like clouds appear in the sky
18 hours before the hurricane makes it
to the shore
the sky opens up and it starts to pour
the rain water often floods low-lying
areas welling up to 15 feet
when the hurricane is 12 hours away a
powerful gale
starts to bring along loose debris six
hours before the landfall
the wind speed is already 90 miles per
hour it's strong enough to break and
even uproot trees
fling around large debris and flip cars
by the way let's say you're sailing and
there are some sharks circling your boat
keep an eye on them if the predators
suddenly leave you alone and head for
deep water
it might mean a hurricane is drawing
closer
get back to dry land as fast as you can
and warn others
if during a period of heavy rains you
hear a roaring sound
it might be a flash flood moving in your
direction
if you're near a river at that moment
you might see debris coming down with
the flow
the water can be changing its color and
becoming cloudier and darker
these signs should set alarm bells
ringing in your head
if your gut feeling is right you have no
time to waste
try to get away from that place as fast
as you can
flash floods are often lethal if you're
out in the wild
pay attention to the water in creeks
streams and rivers
if it's falling or rising rapidly it
might be a sign
a landslide is about to happen and if
you see the water turn muddy
don't wait for more evidence get out of
the area immediately